## Application continuous integration and deployment

Manually deploying an application is not efficient and changes to the environment need to be tested. Microsoft recommends automating build and deployment processes to minimize application errors and the time to release new features. This practice is often termed CI/CD. Below are the common terms and definitions:
  
- **Continuous Integration (CI):** CI tools automatically build, test, and merge code that developers push to version control systems. CI pipelines run code analysis tools to enforce style guidelines, unit tests, integration tests, and more. By constantly merging developers' contributions to a shared branch, CI tools improve developer efficiency.

- **Continuous Delivery (CD):** Continuous delivery tools package applications in a format that operations teams can deploy to production. This typically involves pushing a container image to a container registry.

- **Continuous Deployment (CD):** Continuous deployment automates the production deployment process; it does not require an operations team to intervene. Continuous deployment processes extend continuous delivery.

Implementing build and deployment automation means that development teams can rapidly serve small features and fixes in production, rather than waiting for one large, error-prone manual deployment.

### CI/CD tools

#### Jenkins

There are a plethora of CI/CD tools available for local Git repositories, such as Jenkins. Jenkins is an open-source project that supports over 1,500 extensions and offers advanced features, such as parallel test execution.

#### Local Git

Azure App Service supports automated deployments from local Git repositories: developers simply need to push their code to an App Service remote repository. Consult the [Running the sample application](https://github.com/azure/azure-postgresql/blob/master/DeveloperGuide/step-1-sample-apps/README.md) for a step-by-step App Service deployment from a local Git repository.

#### App Service Deployment Slots

App Service instances in the Standard tier or higher support *deployment slots*, which are separate instances of an app accessible on different hostnames. Developers can validate app updates in a staging slot before swapping the updates into the production slot. After swapping an app from a staging slot to the production slot, the staging slot holds the old production app, allowing teams to quickly roll back unsuccessful changes. Swapping a slot has no downtime.

#### App Service Deployment Center

The Deployment Center provides a summary of the deployment methods for an App Service instance. It also allows developers to quickly create CI/CD pipelines for code stored in version control systems. App Service executes pipelines on multiple targets, including GitHub Actions, Azure Pipelines, and built-in Kudu.

#### GitHub Actions

GitHub Actions runs automated pipelines after an event occurs, such as when a developer pushes to a repository branch or opens a PR. As GitHub Actions integrates with GitHub repositories, pipelines can respond to other repository events, such as when a new issue is opened.

A GitHub repository can have multiple *workflows* (pipelines) written in [YAML.](yaml.org) At their most basic level, workflows consist of *actions* that perform some basic task, such as initializing a build tool. Teams can run GitHub Actions on GitHub runners or self-hosted runners for greater flexibility.

For an example of how to execute GitHub actions against PostgreSQL, reference [Quickstart: Use GitHub Actions to connect to Azure PostgreSQL](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/postgresql/single-server/how-to-deploy-github-action?tabs=userlevel)

#### Azure DevOps

Azure DevOps includes multiple tools to improve team collaboration and automate building, testing, and deploying apps.

- [Azure Boards:](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/devops/boards/get-started/what-is-azure-boards?view=azure-devops) Azure Boards help teams plan and track work items. It supports multiple [processes.](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/devops/boards/work-items/guidance/choose-process?view=azure-devops&tabs=basic-process)
- [Azure Pipelines:](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/devops/pipelines/get-started/what-is-azure-pipelines?view=azure-devops) Azure Pipelines is Microsoft's CI/CD pipeline platform. It supports deployment to PaaS services, virtual machines, and container registries in Azure, other cloud platforms, and on-premises. Azure Pipelines integrates with common version control systems, like GitHub, GitLab, and Azure Repos.
- [Azure Test Plans:](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/devops/test/overview?view=azure-devops) Azure Test Plans allows development teams to create manual tests, for feedback from developers and stakeholders, and automated tests, which are necessary for any CI/CD pipeline.
- [Azure Repos:](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/devops/repos/get-started/what-is-repos?view=azure-devops) Azure Repos provides Microsoft-hosted public and private Git repositories.
- [Azure Artifacts:](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/devops/artifacts/start-using-azure-artifacts?view=azure-devops) Azure Artifacts allows organizations to share packages, such as NuGet and npm packages, internally and publicly. Azure Artifacts integrates with Azure Pipelines.

Organizations can quickly start exploring Azure DevOps by creating a free organization. Azure DevOps' suite of project management, CI/CD, and testing tools empowers organizations to deploy more frequently, more quickly, and with fewer failures.

For an example of using Azure DevOps with PostgreSQL, reference [Azure Pipelines task for Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/azure-pipelines-deploy-database-task).

### Infrastructure as Code (IaC)

Infrastructure as Code is a declarative approach to infrastructure management. Imperative approaches, like Azure PowerShell, are also supported, though declarative techniques are preferred for their flexibility. IaC integrates well with CI/CD pipelines, as it ensures that all application environments are consistent: IaC artifacts, such as ARM templates and Bicep files, are stored in version control systems. When development teams make environment changes, they edit IaC environment definitions, and pipelines automatically alter the cloud environment to fit the new requirements, irrespective of the existing state of the cloud environment (*idempotence*).

Both [Azure Pipelines](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/add-template-to-azure-pipelines) and [GitHub Actions](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/deploy-github-actions) support automated ARM template deployments. Moreover, through the [Azure Service Operator](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/), development teams can provision Azure resources from Kubernetes, integrating infrastructure management into existing Kubernetes release pipelines. [Here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/blob/main/docs/v1/services/postgresql/postgresql.md) is a Microsoft sample provisioning Flexible Server from Kubernetes.
